#BurpSuite 

The spotlight will be on the Decoder, Comparer, Sequencer, and Organizer tools.

## Decoder

not only decodes data intercepted during an attack but also provides the function to encode our own data, prepping it for transmission to the target
- create hashsums of data
- decode data recursively (like the 'Magic' function on CyberChef)
- smart decode attempts auto-decode of input

Encode
- plain text
- URL  for web requests (switches ASCII for hex with %) `/ => 47 => 2F => %2f `
- HTML  `& => &#x26`
- Base64 `hi => aGk=`
- ASCII Hex `ASCII => 41534949`
- Hex, Octal& Binary 
- Gzip compresses data `ctf{here_is_a_flag} => crazy symbols (text)`

you can layer the encodings
- Burp Suite Decoder > ASCII hex > Octal > Hex == `314d7d72572d870f20b14b5c990f23f5ae`

Smart decode
- ` &#x42;&#x75;&#x72;&#x70;&#x20;&#x53;&#x75;&#x69;&#x74;&#x65; `
- Smart Decode => Burp Suite

---
- Base64 ` Let's Start Simple `
- ` TGV0J3MgU3RhcnQgU2ltcGxl `

URL decode ` %4e%65%78%74%3a%20%44%65%63%6f%64%69%6e%67 `
- `Next: Decoding`

Smart Decode ` &#x25;&#x33;&#x34;&#x25;&#x33;&#x37; `
- `47`

Encode `Encoding Challenge` > base64 > ASCII hex > octal
- ` 24034214a720270024142d541357471232250253552c1162d1206c `

---


## Decoder Hashing

Hashing is a one-way process that transforms data into a unique signature. For a function to qualify as a hashing algorithm, the output it generates must be irreversible.

Decoder allows creating hashsums for data 
Hash (options)
- BLAKE2B-160 /256 / 384 / 512 
- BLAKE2S- 128 / 160/  224 / 256
- DSTU7564-256 /384 / 512
- GOST3411 /-2012-256/512
- HARAKA-256/ 512
- KECCAK-224/256/268/384/512
- ALL THE SHA2/3-256/384/512
- etc

`md5sum` => Hash md5sum `md5` => ASCII hex
- ` c8f1ee9a7c5fd4b3c66d7559e99807d0 `

---
SHA256 hashsum `Let's get Hashing!` --> ASCII hex
- ` 6b72350e719a8ef5af560830164b13596cb582757437e21d1879502072238abe `

md4 hashsum `Insecure Algorithms` --> base64
- ` TcV4QGZZN7y7lwYFRMMoeA== `

Download the .zip file that has keys

"Some joker has messed with my SSH key! There are four keys in the directory, and I have no idea which is the real one. The MD5 hashsum for my key is `3166226048d6ad776370dc105d40d9f8` — could you find it for me?"
- hint= Copy and paste each of the keys into Decoder and hash them with the MD5 algorithm one by one. You are looking for the key that has an MD5 hashsum equal to the one in the question. Ensure you don't remove the final newline from the end of the keys!
- key3 


## Comparer

compare two pieces of data, either by ASCII words or by bytes.

need to load 2 datasets for comparison
upload 2 keys, Compare by Words > window opens and highlight the difference

USEFUL 
when performing a login bruteforce or credential stuffing attack with Intruder, you may wish to compare two responses with different lengths to see where the differences lie and whether the differences indicate a successful login.

- ` http://10.10.20.131/support/login `
- try invalid username, password capture request > send to Repeater
- send > Response > Response right click send to Comparer
- Repeater Tab, edit credentials `support_admin : w58ySK4W`  send request > Comparer > compare by word


## Sequencer 

Sequencer allows us to evaluate the entropy, or randomness, of "tokens".
These tokens could be session cookies or **C**ross-**S**ite **R**equest **F**orgery (CSRF) tokens used to protect form submissions.
- if not secure tokens = predict token values

LIVE CAPTURE
- most common 
- pass a request that will generate a token to Sequencer for analysis
- `POST` request for login endpoint to Sequencer, server has a cookie, collect many session cookies/ tokens

MANUAL LOAD
- upload pre-generated token samples for analysis 
- need a large list of tokens

`entropy`

---

` http://10.10.20.131/admin/login/ `
capture > Sequencer
Token Location within Response > select Form field , select `loginToken=`
start live capture
stop at 10,000 captured tokens, click pause > analyze

  
What is the overall quality of randomness estimated to be?
- excellent

- **Overall result**: This gives a broad assessment of the security of the token generation mechanism. In this case, the level of entropy indicates that the tokens are likely securely generated.
    
- **Effective entropy**: This measures the randomness of the tokens. The effective entropy of 117 bits is relatively high, indicating that the tokens are sufficiently random and, therefore, secure against prediction or brute force attacks.
    
- **Reliability**: The significance level of 1% implies that there is 99% confidence in the accuracy of the results. This level of confidence is quite high, providing assurance in the accuracy of the effective entropy estimation.
    
- **Sample**: This provides details about the token samples analyzed during the entropy testing process, including the number of tokens and their characteristics.


## Organizer 

The Organizer module of Burp Suite is designed to help you store and annotate copies of HTTP requests that you may want to revisit later.

Proxy > Intercept > send to Organizer 

The request and response are both read-only. You can search within the request or response, select the request, and then use the search bar below the request.


























