
# Cryptography for dummies

- https://tryhackme.com/room/cryptographyfordummies


## Types of cryptography

- symmetric
- asymmetric

Symmetric - 
Let's say Alice wants to send message to Bob, but she doesn't want to send the message in plain text because anyone can read it.
Alice has encryption
Bob has same encryption as Alice for decryption
- symmetric cryptography both users have the same key to encrypt and decrypt the messages

Asymmetric - 
The encryption key can be used only for encryption, not for decryption and vice versa. 

The encryption key is called **Public key** and the decryption key is called **Private key**.

If you are using symmetric cryptography and someone takes your key he can encrypt and decrypt messages that you send.

asymmetric cryptography he can't decrypt the messages you encrypted with the public key.

Only the holder of the Private key can decrypt them

---

Hashes are a long strings of letters and numbers generated by hashing algorithms.

important thing about hashes is that **they are not reversible**. There's no way to decrypt/decode a hash

use of hashes is for file identification and storing sensitive data, like passwords


---

What type of cryptography is more secure?

- asymmetric


What type of cryptography is faster?

- symmetric


What type of cryptography will a Bank site use?

- asymmetric

What will you use to encrypt your messages in asymmetric cryptography?

- public key


What will you use to decrypt messages in asymmetric cryptography?

- private key


Does symmetric cryptography use two different keys for encryption/decryption? (aye/nay)

- nay



What's the MD5 hash of "hashes are cool"?

- `f762d32e3c160900d94b683e927555b9`

What does MD5 stand for?

- message digest 5

who created MD5?

- Ronald Rivest


Encode the string "cryptographyisuseful" with Base64

- `Y3J5cHRvZ3JhcGh5aXN1c2VmdWw=`


Decode the string "`dGhlIHNlY3JldCB3b3JkIGlzIDogd2F0ZXJtZWxvbg==`". What's the secret word?

- watermelon










